
# Generative AI harms me. Here's why

> This post is a draft. I should elaborate on it eventually.

I said many times already that "Bombs vs. Sleepwalkers" is my passion project. It has many rules, one of them is all final content must be done by humans, nothing AI. If there's something even a tiny bit AI-generated, it's required to redo it from scratch by hand, with fresh ideas not generated by AI.

However, since we *have* no artists and we *are* not artists (not to mention that it feels rude to ask artists to draw concept arts that most likely won't be used in the final product), we use AI to generate **concepts** of some things we imagine: characters, scenes. We still have rules, like before generating anything, we must have a fully described idea of a scene or a person, we must be able to explain everything with our own words, every tiniest detail must be considered to the point that AI is unable to suggest anything new and it's used merely as a tool to "visualize our vision". Just as it was said, we will never use even a tiny bit of AI-generated content in the final production, therefore *ALL* AI-generated content is concepts used as references for human-made content.

There is still a problem though. I feel like the existence of AI harms me. *Sounds weird, right? Like it didn't harm anything earlier. But let me tell about another perspective I've realized only now.* The biggest problem in my case is a general reception of AI-generated images (I'm not calling them "art" because it's disrespectful for actual artists). You'll tell me: "But this is not a problem, people fairly realize that these images have no worth," and you'll be 100% right, and I agree with you when it's about general things, I'm on the same boat (this is not a contradiction, please bear with me). But when it comes to me using AI-generated images to show how I see certain things and AI doesn't help me with new ideas, it becomes rough. I'm talking about the reception from the general public. Imagine that I've composed some serious musical work completely myself, but I can't ask any artists to do some artworks for videos and album covers, however I know what design in particular I need to have for some character, so I use AI to generate a few images close to how I see things. The musical work is not a final release, it won't make its way to the streaming services like Spotify, and I'll change some things in it later, so technically this is a human-made concept music with AI-generated concept images. One of the concept images will be seen as a thumbnail. What will people think first? "Ah, I see, this is some bad AI. I'm not gonna waste my time on listening to this." These people will have no idea that all AI-generated images are concepts and they don't represent the final work. These people won't have an idea that with the use of AI, I was showing my vision I was putting special effort to in a text form. And these people won't have an idea that the primary focus was on the music that is created by me alone and I was putting a ton of effort to it, relative to what I usually do. End result: AI generations harm me. I get less feedback.

I wish it didn't work like that. And I have a very hard time coming up with some disclaimer, so that people had the right idea immediately from the first seconds of watching the video. But first of all, something should make them click on the video despite the AI-generated image being used for a thumbnail and video content.

Just sucks that I can't ask artists to help me at least with the video thumbnails and album arts, but oh well.
